Previously on The Unit.
It's your daughter.
She's M.I.A.
We don't know
where they took her
or who took her.
We're gonna get her back,
but we're gonna have
to go into hell.
The country of Syria
is a sovereign nation.
Do not cross that border.
This is Redcap. Colonel Ryan
has crossed into Syria.
- There's only one reason
why he'd cross into Syria.
- To save Betsy.
Oh! Oh!
[ Laughing ]
I need help.
He's not breathing.
Tell me what you saw.
- A woman and her son.
- And?
- [ Gunshot ]
- Get this truck moving!
- Get us out of here!
- The man who killed you.
[ Elevator Dings ]
How you doing?
[ Whirring ]
[ Bob ]
Okay, I'm in.
Target location confirmed.
How are we looking,
Cool Breeze?
Should be seeing things now,
Snake Doc.
Okay, got it.
Any sign of our suspect
on the street?
I don't know exactly what we're
looking for, but I got a couple
of yuppies taking a stroll.
Old lady
waiting for the bus.
And a working girl.
[ Mack ]
That's no girl, Betty Blue.
- [ Chuckles ]
What about Guitar Hero
at my 10:00?
I got him.
He's stopping,
but that's not a bus stop.
He's checking
the place out.
I'm gonna take him.
I got company.
Does this look like
a campsite to you, pal?
You new around here?
Just transferred
from the home office.
- You got I.D.?
- Must've left it in my limo.
Okay, funny guy,
let's move it.
Do us both a favor.
Head over to the mission,
get yourself something to eat.
Try sleeping inside tonight.
Guitar Hero
just got picked up.
He's not our guy.
Local still watching me?
I got
an empty squad car.
I think that was him.
Our suspect's
disguised as a cop!
He's in the parking
structure next door.
I'm already on it.
He's in the building.
Well, we got some surprises
waiting for him.
Betty Blue, Dirt Diver,
go ahead and make
your way here.
I'm gonna close the trap.
- [ Beeping ]
- He's avoiding
our security cameras.
[ Beeps ]
[ Door Opens ]
Dirt Diver, he's somewhere
between me and the objective.
Roger that!
He's trying to make us provide
our own interference.
I thought you'd
locked down the elevator.
[ Grey ] Yeah, we did.
He must've found a way
to override it.
[ Elevator Dings ]
Smart boy.
He may be
in the elevator shaft.
[ Man Speaking Spanish ]
Eighth floor, ladies' room,
near the elevator.
Heads up. He's
in the ventilation shaft.
[ Mack ]
Bang.
You're dead.
Pretty good, kid.
Just not good enough.
The task was to sneak in
and kill the target.
And I shoot you,
the target isn't dead.
If you shoot me,
we're both dead.
Because I drop this.
[ Bob ]
What the hell?
- He used a flashbang.
- You can't do that.
- The mission was
to terminate the target.
- All's fair in love and war.
That would mean, then,
that I have passed.
[ Explosion ]
[ Woman ] Help! Help! Help!
Somebody help me!
- Oh, my God!
He's on fire!
- [ Screaming ]
- [ Woman ]
Somebody help me!
- [ Screaming ]
Betty Blue, call 911.
Mack, clean this place up.
Get him out of here now.
Rendezvous at the safe house.
[ Woman Sobs ]
You all right?
[ Crying ]
[ Man ]
* Give me your secrets
Bring me a sign *
* Give me a reason
to walk the fire *
* See another dawn *
* Through a daughter's eyes *
* You give me a reason
to walk the fire **
Hey, Colonel.
It's open.
Where's Snake Doc?
New assignment.
Does somebody wanna explain
this cluster bomb to me?
Master Sergeant?
A flashbang used
on the training mission...
went off in an adjacent office
occupied by two civilians...
causing
a secondary explosion.
An incendiary device was set off
in a functioning office building
during a training mission?
- Yes, sir.
- A mission that was supposed
to be performed black...
in order to test
a new recruit's stealthiness.
That's correct, sir.
Which one of you
set it off?
I did, sir.
- Why wasn't this office floor
cleared of civilians?
- The floor was cleared.
The guy must've snuck back in
to get more acquainted
with the secretary.
Yeah, well, that guy
just died 20 minutes ago.
What were you doing
in possession
of a flashbang anyway?
Is that an approved component
of your mission gear?
I've been encouraged
to think outside
the box, sir.
What's that,
the sandbox?
[ Beeping ]
Ryan.
Put her through.
What's the word, Redcap?
We've tracked a possible
suspect in Hector's death.
He's driving a taxi
for the Travelsong
Cab Company...
in the Makati City section
of Manila.
I'm sending the images
to the TOC for confirmation.
And I'm running the aliases.
Good.
Thank you.
[ Beeps ]
We got a team
tracking a suspect...
that matches
your description
of Hector's killer.
Where?
Just surfaced
in Manila.
- When do we leave?
- Got to get a positive I.D.
Get me there in person,
I can do that.
We need to clear up this mess.
And give this guy
a chance to get away?
We're monitoring it.
If this is Hector's killer,
then we need to--
- What's our next step, sir?
- You guys lay low
until I put a lid on this.
Too bad you blew the exercise.
You would have had the fastest
time on record.
[ Door Slams ]
Well, that's one way
of keeping score.
- The kid broke the record.
- He blew the mission.
I'll tell you what happened.
They started pushing
to get recruits
through the program faster.
You lower your standards,
you get kids like that.
- I went through the same
selection process you did.
- Yeah, but I passed.
I was trying
to achieve the objective.
Mm-hmm.
Isn't that the job?
The job is to achieve
the objective.
The job is
to protect Americans,
and you killed one.
[ Man ]
You were tied up and held
on the cargo truck for--
Forty-five minutes.
How do you know
it was 45?
Not 50.
Not an hour and a half.
You were blindfolded.
Because when
they videotaped me,
they removed the hijab.
Okay, good. Good.
Use the local language.
- And I glanced
at my watch.
- That told you what?
That we hadn't
traveled long enough
to be in Syria.
The Syrians are reporting
that you were held in "Abu Kha."
Propaganda.
We were in Mosul.
Never left Iraq?
Never.
Simple, not flashy.
So what do you
think about, soldier,
now that you're back home?
I think about my mates.
You're not just thinking
about 'em, right?
You can't wait to get back.
All right.
Say it.
I've been thinking
about my mates, and I can't
wait to get back to 'em.
Great.
But keep it humble.
A hero is humble.
Just make him embarrassed
to even ask about Syria.
Her hands.
[ Sighs ]
We gonna have a problem?
No, sir. She'll be fine.
Father's confidence
may not cover it, Jonas.
[ Sighs ]
Well?
She's not entirely comfortable
with the new story.
What does that mean?
The camera
will see she's lying.
Should we reschedule
the interview?
Sir, the interview's locked.
Syrians are screaming.
State's all over me to get
this off the news cycle.
- We need her out there now.
She needs to sell this story.
- I'll work with her.
Really?
You in public relations?
Because your team
crossing into Syria...
may have saved
your daughter and
other American servicemen.
But it was an act of war.
If you don't get your girl
to pull off this cover,
it'll be your team
that gets hung out to dry.
Oh, well, then I better
do a good job of it.
Thank you, Colonel.
We'll handle it.
[ Sighs ]
Anyone in your convoy
leave the pack?
No, they did not.
Corporal John Hines
in your convoy?
Then how did his headless
remains end up in Syria
if he's a part of your convoy?
- [ Sighs ]
- Tell me.
I don't know, Daddy.
I can't think of him
like that.
Answer my question.
- [ Sighs ]
- I think you both could
use a little break.
Give us a minute.
Your food is on the table,
little girl.
You're pushing her too hard.
I am pushing her
as hard as I need to.
She's falling apart.
No, she is not.
And good for her.
She's a child.
She's been through hell.
She was in combat.
That's where she was.
[ Sirens Blaring ]
[ Sirens Continue ]
[ Vehicles Rush By ]
You know what?
There's a quick way
we can all get out of this.
I'm listening.
He turns himself in to the cops.
They can't trace him
back to us.
That's not an option.
Why not?
He set off the flashbang.
He started the fire.
Let's see what he's learned
about taking responsibility
for his actions.
- We don't leave
anyone behind.
- He's not in the Unit.
He washed out.
He's never gonna be in. What is
he, like a pledge or something?
I didn't wash out.
Look around. Your objective
was to sneak past us
and tag the target.
I did that.
What kind
of crap is that?
You don't possess
the manhood to see
that you failed?
Hey, hey, hey, hey. Whoa.
- I passed your test!
- You're out! Deal with it!
I've trained
my whole life for this.
Well, then your life's
been a waste.
Cool off, man.
[ Exhales ]
You ready to be
a TV star?
Yes, I am.
I hear they're
sending you back on tour.
They're making you do that?
That doesn't seem fair.
It wasn't them.
I want to.
Well, we used to get together
like this all the time.
Life was somewhat simpler then.
Well, here's
to the simple times.
To good times.
May they return.
Oh, my God!
What did you-- Jonas.
I'll get the gauze.
Are you okay?
[ Molly ]
Let me see.
You okay?
I'm fine.
Yeah.
[ Door Opens ]
What's the word, Colonel?
A.T.F.'s
all over this.
The civilian you killed
was one David Ellis.
Not only
is he a federal judge,
he was a federal judge
that was involved
in policy changes...
following the Oklahoma
City bombings.
They're treating this like
a domestic terrorist attack.
You all need
to disappear.
We got vehicles
for you outside.
Passports.
Some kickin' around money.
- What about our families?
- We'll tell them that you're
on an extended mission.
- And what about Manila?
- We're tracking the suspect...
to see how high up
the food chain it goes.
Where are we supposed to go?
Well, I don't know.
I don't wanna know either.
It's in your best interest
not to tell each other.
This Unit doesn't exist.
So if you get caught--
Well, don't.
Don't get caught.
Don't try to contact us
for a couple of weeks.
I got to be honest with you.
I don't know how this
is all gonna play out.
If it doesn't--
It's been an honor
and privilege, Carlito.
Likewise.
Mack.
[ Grey Sighs ]
The truck or the motorcycle?
[ Bob ]
Truck.
Well, newbie, I guess
this cancels class.
Stay frosty,
good-looking.
You boys get thirsty,
I'll be knocking back cervezas
in Salsipuedes.
Take you up on that.
Keep your head down,
college boy.
You too.
[ Tires Squealing ]
[ Engine Grinding ]
[ Grinding Continues ]
Don't wait for me.
Go, go, go.
[ Motorcycle Revving ]
I told you to go.
- Hop on!
- [ Siren Chirps ]
[ Tires Screech ]
Put your hands
in the air!
[ Helicopter Whirring ]
Let's try it again.
The bridge was closed,
so we had to make a detour.
And then?
We took on fire.
I was hit.
I returned fire.
I radioed for help.
Yes, yes. That's good.
But don't recite.
Recall.
Recall the story.
Own the story.
I don't know how.
Are you sad?
I'm sad to disappoint you.
Did you let
your team down?
I don't know.
Yes, you do.
Did you let them down?
Yes, I did.
I'll tell you something
about cover.
You want somebody
to believe you, confess.
Just confess.
Did you let
your team down?
Yes.
[ Crying ]
Were you under fire?
We were under fire.
Mayday! Mayday!
Requesting air support!
I felt something in my leg
slicing through me.
Pain.
It was a bullet.
And I yelled, "I'm hit."
[ Inhales ]
There was blood,
and I could feel it
moving through my fingers when
I tried to radio for help...
and keep pressure
on my leg.
And then there
was blood on the radio.
And the insurgents kept coming.
Where was the attack
coming from?
Everywhere.
There were people coming
out of houses, alleys.
[ Inhales ]
- I fired my weapon
until it stopped firing.
- [ Gun Clicking ]
Then one of the insurgents
grabbed me.
[ Crying ]
He smelled.
And he held me close.
I kicked him.
[ Man Speaking Arabic ]
My leg was wet with blood.
And before he pul-pulled me
out of the Humvee,
I touched the windshield.
Why?
To leave a clue.
For whom?
For the troops
coming after us.
How did you know
they would?
We don't leave anyone behind.
- What were you doing
in Syria?
- We were never in Syria.
Sounds like
the truth to me.
Way to go.
[ Man Speaking, Indistinct ]
[ Cell Door Slams ]
You don't leave
a man behind.
And in doing so,
you got both
of us captured.
- I guess I can't
do anything right.
- I don't know. Can you?
- I'm sorry.
- Let's get our cover straight.
Can't the colonel call
and make this go away?
To do so, he'd
have to reveal
our identities...
and the existence
of the Unit.
[ Door Closes ]
McBride.
Mom.
Hey.
Interesting
time of day
to do the wash.
I figured I'd do it
so you wouldn't have to.
I just
washed them yesterday.
Nervous energy, I guess.
You know
I love you, right?
I never doubted that.
They teach it in boot camp--
wash your sheets.
They also teach you
to cover your tracks.
You don't know that.
Jonas.
Your daughter
is wetting her bed.
She's in deep trouble.
She's anxious.
She's anxious
about the interview.
It's more than that.
The broken glass.
Look, she's under pressure.
I don't deny that.
But she's got
to get through this.
Why?
- Are you serious?
- Yes.
Because it's her job.
Because other men
are at risk here.
She's got to get through it.
Sam McBride,
born Riverside, California,
May 6, 1983.
909.
Born and bred, baby.
Expelled from high school
senior year,
destruction of property.
Arrested for assault,
Florida, 2001.
Some guy
was roughing up
his girlfriend.
Turns out
he's an off-duty cop.
His word against mine.
You joined the army
to avoid jail?
No.
I wanted to serve
my country.
For real.
Was blowing up a federal judge
serving your country?
I don't know
what you're talking about.
David Ellis.
Had a wife and three kids.
Looks like the army did
a good job of teaching you
how to be violent.
The army also does
peacekeeping missions
and humanitarian aid.
Right.
At least until six months ago.
What happened?
I got out.
It was cutting
into my surf time.
That's very colorful.
The fire
that killed that judge
was set off by some sort of...
military grade explosive.
It has nothing
to do with me.
[ Hand Strikes Table ]
Try again!
We have your prints
in the building.
And the judge's secretary
has positively
identified you.
And you were also
in possession
of a phony passport...
and several
thousand dollars in cash.
I had a good run
in Vegas last week.
Hey, pal.
You were paid off for a hit
on a federal judge...
and you were trying
to skip the country.
Or was it
a political assassination?
Neither.
Looks like your torch job
didn't destroy as much evidence
as you would've liked, pal.
It's only a matter of time
before we find the rest
of your crew.
Okay, funny man?
You have one chance
of saving your ass,
Sam McBride, and this is it.
Clock's ticking.
Nobody was supposed
to get hurt.
It was just some stupid
training mission.
They were testing me.
To see if I had
what it takes.
Sam.
Sam, Sam, Sam, Sam, Sam.
We are gonna stay at this
until you give me what I need,
and I need you
to identify these men, now.
Come on.
[ Sighs ]
His name is Belforte.
They call him the Bishop.
He's from somewhere
in Colorado.
He may have been a cop.
He's the only one who really
knew how to handle a weapon.
They're based
out of Idaho,
and they go by the name
Sons of Liberty.
They're mainly just
weekend warriors with a grudge
against the federal government.
That's why they hired me.
To break
into an office building?
They said it was a dry run
for some other operation
they were planning.
They didn't trust me,
so they didn't give me
all the details.
- I didn't know anything
about the judge.
- And the guy in lockup?
That's just
a local gear head I found
to sell me the bike.
That was
my exit strategy.
You're lying.
I swear.
You're playing us.
Sam, there's a prison van
waiting outside to take you
to Fort Leavenworth...
if you don't start telling
the truth right now.
That is the truth.
Fine.
[ Hand Hits Table ]
Let's go!
We're done.
Get him out of here.
You wanna know the truth?
I became a soldier
because I wanted
to protect my country,
just like a lot
of my buddies.
Guys who got back
from Iraq messed up.
And for what?
To come home to be forgotten
by the same government
they were fighting to protect?
Our country
was born out of rebellion.
And if that's what it takes
to get back our freedom,
then, yeah, I'm a terrorist.
Just like
Thomas Jefferson
was a terrorist.
[ Man ]
Let's go.
We'll take it from here,
gentlemen.
Welcome to the Unit,
Sergeant.
We knew you had
the physical skills,
but you also have
the reputation
of being a lone wolf.
Had to be sure
you'd protect the team.
Nicely done,
young fella.
What about the judge?
Oh, the judge you killed.
Well, he wasn't a judge.
He was
a Hollywood stuntman.
We told him
we were pulling
a prank on a friend...
who was about to get married.
[ Chuckles ]
I'm glad you're here.
[ Hands Clasp ]
No hard feelings.
- [ Grunts ]
- No hard feelings.
Not bad. You got to throw
your hip into it
a little bit more.
- [ Laughing ]
- Kind of hits like Brown.
Hey now.
[ All Laughing ]
Oh, yeah.
You're gonna
fit in just fine.
Whew.
Let's roll.
Your Unit call sign
is Whiplash.
You run your own
high-end home theater
installation business.
And you just landed
a contract with AeroDyne to do
the same for their planes.
Learn your trade.
Learn your cover.
- Yes, sir.
- I'm a sergeant, son.
Don't "sir" me.
Don't hurt me like that.
- Wanna see
yourself disappear?
- I guess so.
There you go.
- [ Beeping ]
- Whoa.
Yo, Whiplash.
Let's go shopping.
[ Chuckles ]
Go big or go home.
We didn't come here
to hurt people's feelings.
[ Door Opens ]
[ Grey ]
Hey.
- Wheels up for Manila
in 90 minutes.
- About time for some action.
I'll be inside.
Good luck.
[ Door Closes ]
We need to talk.
I need to get inside.
Good morning, Jonas, Molly.
Colonel.
How's your daughter?
You don't want
to hear my answer.
Is there a problem
I need to know about?
Not a one, sir.
Very well.
I'll inform Colonel West.
We'll get the show on the road.
[ Door Opens ]
You, young lady,
have been awarded
some medals.
The colonel would like
to present 'em to you.
Well, I've got my P.O.W.
and my Purple Heart
right here, sir.
We'll have
to add another one.
The Bronze Star?
The Bronze Star
is for soldiers
like my grandpa...
who displayed valor
and heroic achievement
in the face of danger.
That's precisely
what you're doing
in selling this story.
[ Sighs ]
I'll sell your story, sir,
but I will not disrespect
the men and women...
who fought and died
for that award.
Betsy, I--
[ Jonas ]
All due respect, sir,
my daughter said
she did not earn
that medal.
[ Sighs ]
Give me a minute
to finish up here,
and let's say we start
this Ferris wheel.
Colonel Ryan.
What you did, the risk
you took for me, sir--
- No.
- You're the one
who deserves that award.
No.
I couldn't accept a medal
for something I didn't
do either.
Go get 'em, Lieutenant.
What are you staring
at me like that for?
What's wrong?
Nothing, Daddy.
You all right?
I'm soldiering on.
All right?
I'm all right.
I've been scared
on many a mission.
They're waiting for me.
Dad.
I'm okay.
[ Door Opens, Closes ]
Welcome to
the Philippines, boys.
Staff Sergeant McBride,
meet Warrant Officer Sullivan.
I didn't know there
were women in the Unit.
- There aren't.
- She's more of a mascot.
Yeah. They just,
uh, take me to games,
take me out at halftime.
I'm sure they do.
So where are we?
These are the latest
surveillance photos
of the suspect.
His name is
Rami Kantera.
He's a Lebanese soldier.
- Is that Hector's killer?
- I don't know.
I got to see him in person.
If he did shoot Hector,
it wouldn't be a shocker.
He's suspected of being
the mastermind behind
a car bombing in Beirut.
Killed an American businessman
as well as some local
schoolchildren on a field trip.
- Who's the other guy?
- The other guy
is Muamar Marpuri.
He's a card-carrying member
of the Jihadist group
Abu Sayyaf.
The cab company provides shade
so they could drive around
the city all day and chatter.
Well, looks like our man
found a local terrorist cell
to hide out in.
- That means
he'll have protection.
- Not for long.
Hey.
[ Speaking, Indistinct ]
- Is that him?
- I'm gonna take a closer look.
We might be leaving here
in a hurry, Redcap.
A lot of innocents in the area.
Be careful.
Roger that.
I got some wheels
that should whisk us
through any rush-hour traffic.
[ Beeping ]
It's him. He's running.
Tally frickin' ho!
[ Speaking Tagalog ]
- What's going on, Cool Breeze?
- We met some resistance.
I'm in pursuit on foot.
[ Beeping ]
[ Man Speaking Tagalog ]
[ Mack ]
You see him?
Out of the way!
Move! Move!
I'll cut him off.
- [ Gunshots ]
- [ People Screaming ]
Yeah, we got
a little held up
at the market.
Where the hell
is Whiplash?
Whiplash,
I could use some help!
[ Groaning ]
Finita, la commedia, huh?
Something very much
like that.
I forced the window open,
climbed out onto the ledge.
I jumped to the street,
and then I ran.
You must
have been terrified.
I wanted to live.
And then what happened?
Then I flagged down
the patrol at 108th.
And they evacuated you.
No, ma'am.
I led them back
to the others.
To the house in Mosul.
Yes.
So they never
took you to Syria?
Syria? No.
I was rescued in Iraq.
You've got a couple
of medals there
on your chest.
People are
calling you a hero.
I know some heroes.
I am not one of them.
I just did my job
like I was trained.
Well, the picture you paint
is of bona fide hero.
Maybe you are just
too modest to admit it.
The real heroes are the people
still fighting on behalf
of this country.
Rumor has it
you wanna go back.
I'm part of a team.
I belong with them.
Really? In Iraq?
After all you've
been through?
- I mean, aren't you
the least bit scared?
- No. Not at all.
What was the thing
you wanted most...
when you got back
to the United States?
- My mama's
sweet potato pie.
- [ Chuckles ]
I'm sure she was happy
to fix it for you.
Mm-hmm.
And I stuffed myself.
Thank you, Lieutenant.
And thank you
for your service.
You're most welcome.
** [ Guitar: Soft ]
* All the cars
on the boulevard *
* I watch
the taillights disappear *
* And all the days that
I've been sleeping through *
* Awake to remind me
that you're still *
* Not here *
[ Exhales ]
Oh, Hector.
I don't know
what to say exactly.
In case you haven't
been paying attention
to what's going on down here,
we killed the son of a bitch
that did this.
And I sprang
for the good stuff,
being the cheap
son of a bitch
you always said I was.
Here's to you.
* It's been four years *
* Feels like a hundred *
* Another world *
* A lifetime ago *
* You were a good thing *
* You were a good thing
in a world gone wrong *
* You were a good thing *
* You were a good thing
in a world gone wrong **
** [ Ends ]